The Recovery Time Objective,
or RTO, is the maximum duration of a service interruption.
This is the time that you agree to in your SLA.
Of course, it is possible that you will fail to meet your RTO.
In this case, any penalties in your contracts will come into play.
RTO is similar to uptime,
but it is measured per incident,
rather than on a monthly basis.
Really, your RTO should be small enough so that
at least one outage would still fit within your uptime SLA.
Otherwise, you can meet your RTO,
SLA, but still miss your overall uptime SLA.
As with uptime, you need to carefully consider what RTO you can support.
All of the critical parts of your platform must be
designed for recovery within your RTO timeframe.
Lots of things must happen to restore service to your platform.
When thinking about RTO,
don't forget about the human factor type of things such as getting people out of bed,
or searching for the right documentation.
Your RTO should be the sum of the time it takes to
complete all of the components of a recovery from failure.
If it takes two hours to restore a database from a backup,
you cannot have a one hour RTO.
Be sure you have plans for staff to be on-call,
and that those staff know how to recover your systems,
or at least get in touch with other subject matter experts as needed.